apis.md, before:

## hierarchy api design principles
[hierarchy api design principles](http://api-as-a-product.com/articles/hierarchy-api-design-principles/)

## apigee top 10 api articles of 2018
[apigee top 10 api articles of 2018](https://medium.com/apis-and-digital-transformation/our-top-api-articles-of-2018-41ccd921284b)

## 10 soa design patterns every architect should know
[10 soa design patterns every architect should know](https://arch.simplicable.com/arch/new/10-soa-design-patterns-every-architect-should-know)

## understanding rpc rest and graphql
[understanding rpc rest and graphql](https://blog.apisyouwonthate.com/understanding-rpc-rest-and-graphql-2f959aadebe7)

## picking the right api paradigm
[picking the right api paradigm](https://blog.apisyouwonthate.com/picking-the-right-api-paradigm-d476f1a622e8?gi=be14dae47119)

## post rest
[post rest](https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2018/11/18/Post-REST)
### hacker news discussion for "post rest"
[hacker news discussion for "post rest"](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18485978)

## api design patterns (apigee)
[api design patterns (apigee)](https://apigee.com/about/cp/api-design-patterns)

## Design Patterns for creating REST-APIs
[Design Patterns for creating REST-APIs](https://hersengarage.nl/rest-api-design-as-a-craft-not-an-art-a3fd97ed3ef4?gi=6ed0b7563451)

## api design best practices (microsoft)
[api design best practices (microsoft)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)

## restful api design patterns (snyxius)
[restful api design patterns (snyxius)](https://www.snyxius.com/restful-api-design-patterns/)

## Martin Fowler - tagged "API"
[Martin Fowler - tagged "API"](https://martinfowler.com/tags/API%20design.html)

## you need api management help 11 open source tools consider
[you need api management help 11 open source tools consider](https://techbeacon.com/you-need-api-management-help-11-open-source-tools-consider?amp)

## What is API Throttling, Quota, Rate Limiting and Burst?
[What is API Throttling, Quota, Rate Limiting and Burst?](https://apifriends.com/api-management/api-quota)

## SQL as an API language
[SQL as an API language](https://simonwillison.net/2018/Oct/4/datasette-ideas/#SQL_as_an_API_language)

## do you really know cors
[do you really know cors](http://performantcode.com/web/do-you-really-know-cors)
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18134114

## restful api's a step by step guide
[restful api's a step by step guide](https://hackernoon.com/restful-api-design-step-by-step-guide-2f2c9f9fcdbf)

https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis-06

## are you glad you moved from rest to graphql
[are you glad you moved from rest to graphql](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=17565508)

## rest was never about crud
[rest was never about crud](https://tyk.io/blog/rest-never-crud/)

# goodbye microservices
[goodbye microservices](https://segment.com/blog/goodbye-microservices/)

## 8 reasons why your api adoption is so slow
[8 reasons why your api adoption is so slow](https://techbeacon.com/8-reasons-why-your-api-adoption-so-slow)

## A Microservices implementation journey

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 1
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 1](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-1-9f6471fe917)

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 2
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 2](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-2-10c422a4d402)

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 3
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 3](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-3-50f030ba6bb5)

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 4
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 4](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-4-9c19a16385e9?gi=192c87ccc695)

## Optimizing the Netflix API
[Optimizing the Netflix API](https://medium.com/netflix-techblog/optimizing-the-netflix-api-5c9ac715cf19)

## API Governance Blueprint
[API Governance Blueprint](https://matthewreinbold.com/2017/10/03/API-Governance-Blueprint)

## the good way to rest (part 1)
[the good way to rest (part 1)](https://blog.refineri.co.uk/the-good-way-to-rest-part-1-909566ae790)

## the death of microservices
[the death of microservices](http://www.dwmkerr.com/the-death-of-microservice-madness-in-2018)

## Beyond OAuth2: End to End Microservice Security
[Beyond OAuth2: End to End Microservice Security](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/oauth2-microservices-security?utm_source=infoqEmail&utm_medium=SpecialNL_EditorialContent&utm_campaign=01222018_SpecialNL&forceSponsorshipId=1606#theCommentsSection)

## the last json spec
[the last json spec](https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2017/12/14/RFC-8259-STD-90)

## google api explorer
[google api explorer](https://developers.google.com/apis-explorer/#p)

## asyncapi is a specification format for message driven apis
[asyncapi is a specification format for message driven apis](https://apievangelist.com/2017/11/29/asyncapi-is-a-specification-format-for-message-driven-apis/)

## introducing-twitter premium apis
[introducing-twitter premium apis](https://blog.twitter.com/developer/en_us/topics/tools/2017/introducing-twitter-premium-apis.html)

## API design choosing between names and identifiers in URLs
[API design choosing between names and identifiers in URLs](https://cloudplatform.googleblog.com/2017/10/API-design-choosing-between-names-and-identifiers-in-URLs.html)

## paypal API standards and patterns
[paypal API standards and patterns](https://www.infoq.com/news/2017/09/paypal-api-guide)
[paypal API standards](https://github.com/paypal/api-standards/blob/master/api-style-guide.md)
[paypal API guidelines](https://github.com/paypal/api-standards/blob/master/patterns.md)

## securing microservices
[securing microservices](https://medium.facilelogin.com/securing-microservices-with-oauth-2-0-jwt-and-xacml-d03770a9a838)

## 7 frameworks to build a rest api in Go
[7 frameworks to build a rest api in Go](http://nordicapis.com/7-frameworks-to-build-a-rest-api-in-go)

## swagger aint rest
[swagger aint rest](http://blog.howarddierking.com/2016/10/07/swagger-ain-t-rest-is-that-ok/)
[swagger aint rest - reddit discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/56ggr7/swagger_aint_rest/)

## you should use access tokens to secure API
[you should use access tokens to secure API](https://www.programmableweb.com/news/why-you-should-use-access-tokens-to-secure-api/elsewhere-web/2017/06/11)

## roy fielding on versioning
[roy fielding on versioning](https://www.infoq.com/articles/roy-fielding-on-versioning)
[found in this HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=14515473)

## apicurio
[apicurio](https://apievangelist.com/2017/05/30/apicurio-is-the-open-source-api-editor-i-was-looking-for)

## the hardest part about microservices
[the hardest part about microservices](http://blog.christianposta.com/microservices/the-hardest-part-about-microservices-data)

## guide to api management tools
[guide to api management tools](http://sdtimes.com/guide-api-management-tools)

## rest anti-patterns
[rest anti-patterns](https://www.infoq.com/articles/rest-anti-patterns)
[rest anti-patterns hn](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=14307278)

## stop using jwt for sessions
[stop using jwt for sessions](http://cryto.net/~joepie91/blog/2016/06/13/stop-using-jwt-for-sessions)

## what json web tokens are bad (hacker news)
[things to use instead of jwt](https://kev.inburke.com/kevin/things-to-use-instead-of-jwt)
[things to use instead of jwt - HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=14290114)
[spreadsheet from HN discussion](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAX5ZJzluilhoYKjra-uHbMCZraaQkqIHl3RIQ8mVkM/edit#gid=0)

## grpc web - moving past rest towards type safe web
[grpc web - moving past rest towards type safe web](https://spatialos.improbable.io/games/grpc-web-moving-past-restjson-towards-type-safe-web-apis#hn)

## microservice prerequeisites
[microservice prerequeisites](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/MicroservicePrerequisites.html)

## micro monolith anti pattern
[micro monolith anti pattern](http://chi.pl/2017/01/30/Micro-monolith-Anti-pattern.html)

## the problems with swagger
[the problems with swagger](http://blog.novatec-gmbh.de/the-problems-with-swagger)

## api design style
[api design style](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/api-design-style?utm_campaign=rightbar_v2&utm_source=infoq&utm_medium=presentations_link&utm_content=link_text)

## beautiful REST & JSON APIs (les hazelwood presentation)
[beautiful REST & JSON APIs (les hazelwood presentation)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mZ8_QgJ5mbs&t=368s)

## Is GraphQL the Next Frontier for Web APIs?
[Is GraphQL the Next Frontier for Web APIs?](https://brandur.org/api-paradigms)

## steve yegge SOA rant
[steve yegge SOA rant](https://plus.google.com/+RipRowan/posts/eVeouesvaVX)

## richardson maturity model
[richardson maturity model](https://martinfowler.com/articles/richardsonMaturityModel.html)

## API Aesthetics
[API Aesthetics](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/api-design-style?utm_campaign=rightbar_v2&utm_source=infoq&utm_medium=presentations_link&utm_content=link_text)

## raml vs swagger discussion
[raml vs swagger discussion](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/raml-swagger?utm_campaign=rightbar_v2&utm_source=infoq&utm_medium=presentations_link&utm_content=link_text)

## discussion on design in hacker news
[discussion on design in hacker news](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=13706618)

## design guide collection by api evangelist
[design guide collection by api evangelist](http://design.apievangelist.com/tools/design-guides)

## Microservices - please don't
[microservices - please don't](http://basho.com/posts/technical/microservices-please-dont)

## In Defense of the Monolith - part 1 & 2
[monolith - part 1](https://www.infoq.com/articles/monolith-defense-part-1)
[monolith - part 2](https://www.infoq.com/articles/monolith-defense-part-2)

## Martin Fowler - Monolith First
[monolith first](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/MonolithFirst.html)

## API Style Book
[api style book](http://apistylebook.com)

## microsoft API design guide
[microsoft API design guide](https://github.com/Microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/master/Guidelines.md)

## google API design guide
[https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design)

## rest api design resource modeling
[rest api design resource modeling](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/rest-api-design-resource-modeling)

Commit message:

added link for the miller presentation and the article about good developer portals

apis.md, after:

## Best Practices for Building Great API Developer Portals
[Best Practices for Building Great API Developer Portals](https://yos.io/2018/02/14/api-developer-portal-best-practices/)

## Putting the Kit back in SDKs, Darrel Miller, Microsoft
[Putting the Kit back in SDKs, Darrel Miller, Microsoft](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DA8DxLMn2NU)

## hierarchy api design principles
[hierarchy api design principles](http://api-as-a-product.com/articles/hierarchy-api-design-principles/)

## apigee top 10 api articles of 2018
[apigee top 10 api articles of 2018](https://medium.com/apis-and-digital-transformation/our-top-api-articles-of-2018-41ccd921284b)

## 10 soa design patterns every architect should know
[10 soa design patterns every architect should know](https://arch.simplicable.com/arch/new/10-soa-design-patterns-every-architect-should-know)

## understanding rpc rest and graphql
[understanding rpc rest and graphql](https://blog.apisyouwonthate.com/understanding-rpc-rest-and-graphql-2f959aadebe7)

## picking the right api paradigm
[picking the right api paradigm](https://blog.apisyouwonthate.com/picking-the-right-api-paradigm-d476f1a622e8?gi=be14dae47119)

## post rest
[post rest](https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2018/11/18/Post-REST)
### hacker news discussion for "post rest"
[hacker news discussion for "post rest"](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18485978)

## api design patterns (apigee)
[api design patterns (apigee)](https://apigee.com/about/cp/api-design-patterns)

## Design Patterns for creating REST-APIs
[Design Patterns for creating REST-APIs](https://hersengarage.nl/rest-api-design-as-a-craft-not-an-art-a3fd97ed3ef4?gi=6ed0b7563451)

## api design best practices (microsoft)
[api design best practices (microsoft)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/best-practices/api-design)

## restful api design patterns (snyxius)
[restful api design patterns (snyxius)](https://www.snyxius.com/restful-api-design-patterns/)

## Martin Fowler - tagged "API"
[Martin Fowler - tagged "API"](https://martinfowler.com/tags/API%20design.html)

## you need api management help 11 open source tools consider
[you need api management help 11 open source tools consider](https://techbeacon.com/you-need-api-management-help-11-open-source-tools-consider?amp)

## What is API Throttling, Quota, Rate Limiting and Burst?
[What is API Throttling, Quota, Rate Limiting and Burst?](https://apifriends.com/api-management/api-quota)

## SQL as an API language
[SQL as an API language](https://simonwillison.net/2018/Oct/4/datasette-ideas/#SQL_as_an_API_language)

## do you really know cors
[do you really know cors](http://performantcode.com/web/do-you-really-know-cors)
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18134114

## restful api's a step by step guide
[restful api's a step by step guide](https://hackernoon.com/restful-api-design-step-by-step-guide-2f2c9f9fcdbf)

https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-bcp56bis-06

## are you glad you moved from rest to graphql
[are you glad you moved from rest to graphql](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=17565508)

## rest was never about crud
[rest was never about crud](https://tyk.io/blog/rest-never-crud/)

# goodbye microservices
[goodbye microservices](https://segment.com/blog/goodbye-microservices/)

## 8 reasons why your api adoption is so slow
[8 reasons why your api adoption is so slow](https://techbeacon.com/8-reasons-why-your-api-adoption-so-slow)

## A Microservices implementation journey

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 1
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 1](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-1-9f6471fe917)

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 2
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 2](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-2-10c422a4d402)

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 3
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 3](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-3-50f030ba6bb5)

### A Microservices implementation journey - Part 4
[A Microservices implementation journey - Part 4](https://koukia.ca/a-microservices-implementation-journey-part-4-9c19a16385e9?gi=192c87ccc695)

## Optimizing the Netflix API
[Optimizing the Netflix API](https://medium.com/netflix-techblog/optimizing-the-netflix-api-5c9ac715cf19)

## API Governance Blueprint
[API Governance Blueprint](https://matthewreinbold.com/2017/10/03/API-Governance-Blueprint)

## the good way to rest (part 1)
[the good way to rest (part 1)](https://blog.refineri.co.uk/the-good-way-to-rest-part-1-909566ae790)

## the death of microservices
[the death of microservices](http://www.dwmkerr.com/the-death-of-microservice-madness-in-2018)

## Beyond OAuth2: End to End Microservice Security
[Beyond OAuth2: End to End Microservice Security](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/oauth2-microservices-security?utm_source=infoqEmail&utm_medium=SpecialNL_EditorialContent&utm_campaign=01222018_SpecialNL&forceSponsorshipId=1606#theCommentsSection)

## the last json spec
[the last json spec](https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2017/12/14/RFC-8259-STD-90)

## google api explorer
[google api explorer](https://developers.google.com/apis-explorer/#p)

## asyncapi is a specification format for message driven apis
[asyncapi is a specification format for message driven apis](https://apievangelist.com/2017/11/29/asyncapi-is-a-specification-format-for-message-driven-apis/)

## introducing-twitter premium apis
[introducing-twitter premium apis](https://blog.twitter.com/developer/en_us/topics/tools/2017/introducing-twitter-premium-apis.html)

## API design choosing between names and identifiers in URLs
[API design choosing between names and identifiers in URLs](https://cloudplatform.googleblog.com/2017/10/API-design-choosing-between-names-and-identifiers-in-URLs.html)

## paypal API standards and patterns
[paypal API standards and patterns](https://www.infoq.com/news/2017/09/paypal-api-guide)
[paypal API standards](https://github.com/paypal/api-standards/blob/master/api-style-guide.md)
[paypal API guidelines](https://github.com/paypal/api-standards/blob/master/patterns.md)

## securing microservices
[securing microservices](https://medium.facilelogin.com/securing-microservices-with-oauth-2-0-jwt-and-xacml-d03770a9a838)

## 7 frameworks to build a rest api in Go
[7 frameworks to build a rest api in Go](http://nordicapis.com/7-frameworks-to-build-a-rest-api-in-go)

## swagger aint rest
[swagger aint rest](http://blog.howarddierking.com/2016/10/07/swagger-ain-t-rest-is-that-ok/)
[swagger aint rest - reddit discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/56ggr7/swagger_aint_rest/)

## you should use access tokens to secure API
[you should use access tokens to secure API](https://www.programmableweb.com/news/why-you-should-use-access-tokens-to-secure-api/elsewhere-web/2017/06/11)

## roy fielding on versioning
[roy fielding on versioning](https://www.infoq.com/articles/roy-fielding-on-versioning)
[found in this HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=14515473)

## apicurio
[apicurio](https://apievangelist.com/2017/05/30/apicurio-is-the-open-source-api-editor-i-was-looking-for)

## the hardest part about microservices
[the hardest part about microservices](http://blog.christianposta.com/microservices/the-hardest-part-about-microservices-data)

## guide to api management tools
[guide to api management tools](http://sdtimes.com/guide-api-management-tools)

## rest anti-patterns
[rest anti-patterns](https://www.infoq.com/articles/rest-anti-patterns)
[rest anti-patterns hn](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=14307278)

## stop using jwt for sessions
[stop using jwt for sessions](http://cryto.net/~joepie91/blog/2016/06/13/stop-using-jwt-for-sessions)

## what json web tokens are bad (hacker news)
[things to use instead of jwt](https://kev.inburke.com/kevin/things-to-use-instead-of-jwt)
[things to use instead of jwt - HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=14290114)
[spreadsheet from HN discussion](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tAX5ZJzluilhoYKjra-uHbMCZraaQkqIHl3RIQ8mVkM/edit#gid=0)

## grpc web - moving past rest towards type safe web
[grpc web - moving past rest towards type safe web](https://spatialos.improbable.io/games/grpc-web-moving-past-restjson-towards-type-safe-web-apis#hn)

## microservice prerequeisites
[microservice prerequeisites](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/MicroservicePrerequisites.html)

## micro monolith anti pattern
[micro monolith anti pattern](http://chi.pl/2017/01/30/Micro-monolith-Anti-pattern.html)

## the problems with swagger
[the problems with swagger](http://blog.novatec-gmbh.de/the-problems-with-swagger)

## api design style
[api design style](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/api-design-style?utm_campaign=rightbar_v2&utm_source=infoq&utm_medium=presentations_link&utm_content=link_text)

## beautiful REST & JSON APIs (les hazelwood presentation)
[beautiful REST & JSON APIs (les hazelwood presentation)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mZ8_QgJ5mbs&t=368s)

## Is GraphQL the Next Frontier for Web APIs?
[Is GraphQL the Next Frontier for Web APIs?](https://brandur.org/api-paradigms)

## steve yegge SOA rant
[steve yegge SOA rant](https://plus.google.com/+RipRowan/posts/eVeouesvaVX)

## richardson maturity model
[richardson maturity model](https://martinfowler.com/articles/richardsonMaturityModel.html)

## API Aesthetics
[API Aesthetics](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/api-design-style?utm_campaign=rightbar_v2&utm_source=infoq&utm_medium=presentations_link&utm_content=link_text)

## raml vs swagger discussion
[raml vs swagger discussion](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/raml-swagger?utm_campaign=rightbar_v2&utm_source=infoq&utm_medium=presentations_link&utm_content=link_text)

## discussion on design in hacker news
[discussion on design in hacker news](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=13706618)

## design guide collection by api evangelist
[design guide collection by api evangelist](http://design.apievangelist.com/tools/design-guides)

## Microservices - please don't
[microservices - please don't](http://basho.com/posts/technical/microservices-please-dont)

## In Defense of the Monolith - part 1 & 2
[monolith - part 1](https://www.infoq.com/articles/monolith-defense-part-1)
[monolith - part 2](https://www.infoq.com/articles/monolith-defense-part-2)

## Martin Fowler - Monolith First
[monolith first](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/MonolithFirst.html)

## API Style Book
[api style book](http://apistylebook.com)

## microsoft API design guide
[microsoft API design guide](https://github.com/Microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/master/Guidelines.md)

## google API design guide
[https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design)

## rest api design resource modeling
[rest api design resource modeling](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/rest-api-design-resource-modeling)
